# Week six journal

This week, I created and analysed a corpus made up of Virginia Woolf's diary entries from 1924 to 1929, during the time that she was writing her book, *To the Lighthouse*. Examining the corpus using Antconc, topic models, and Voyant found that the diaries revealed something about Woolf's writing process and the personal relationship she had with books and writing. The collocates for certain words in the diary reveals the nature of her connections with the people in her life, notably her husband, Leonard, and her lover, Vita Sackville-West. Looking up words like "my" and "I" also gave me a glimpse into how she saw herself. I created a [static site](https://paula-rodrigo.github.io/woolfdiaries.github.io/) where I communicated my findings. The site includes visualizations and interactive readings of the data through Voyant.

In Michelle Moravec's research into Carolee Schneemann, she outlined her research questions that guided her exploration. I realized how helpful that is, and created guiding questions for myself as well. Stating the research questions also shows the things that I was expecting to find in the data before doing any exploration. For instance, one of my research questions was to find out if feminist themes were apparent in Woolf's personal writing. But, the common topics that I found were not related to feminism at all. Rather, it revealed more about Woolf's writing. Like Moravec, I also had to hand-clean the text and separate it into individual files. With her corpus, Moravec searched for common words to find common themes, such as "the past" and feminist principles. When I did that in my exploration, I was also able to see common phrases that were repeated in Woolf's writing, like "a book", "a failure", "my own", and "I think." In her article, Moravec states that her corpus was too small, despite having over 400 documents in it. That being said, I definitely need more data and possibly something that could be used as a reference corpus. Like Moravec, I couldn't truly answer my research questions either based on my limited exploration. 

After this week, I definitely feel that my analysis was more exploratory than explanatory. Most of my time was spent cleaning up my data and getting it ready to examine. As such, I have much more of an appreciation for the work that goes into creating and collecting data to examine. I wish I had more time to go through the visualizations and word searches that I did so that I could come up with more fleshed-out results and explanations. I can see why Dr. Graham said that this week is more of a "first pass". If I were to go deeper, I would need more data in the corpus to even try to answer the initial research guiding quesitions that I posed. 
